<!-- This template shows how to bulk convert all columns of data into one markdown file -->
<!-- caveat: substitution key matches column headers from default export. You will get a KeyError if there's a mismatch -->

## Goodreads Data

### Book Id 

1538183

https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1538183

## library information

### ISBN 
="1565119789"

### ISBN13 
="9781565119789"

## book information

### Title
1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus

### Author 
Charles C. Mann

### Author l-f 
Mann, Charles C.

### Additional Authors
Peter         Johnson

### Publisher 
HighBridge Company

### Binding
Audio CD

### Number of Pages
11

### Year Published
2005

### Original Publication Year 
2005

## user contributed data

### My Rating
4

### Average Rating
4.05

### Date Read
2019/05/09

### Date Added
2019/04/29

### Exclusive Shelf
read

### Bookshelves
history

### Bookshelves with positions
history (#23)

### Read Count
1

### Owned Copies
0

### Spoiler 
Empty

## Review

### Private Notes
Empty

### My Review
First. The book can be halved and/or skipped around if you favor one continent or another. Mann does a phenomenal job traversing the histories of a peoples who were wiped off the earth by diseases.<br/><br/>This book covers everything you wanted to know:<br/>* Were all native populations nomads? Emphatically no, most city centers were ravaged by diseases<br/>* Did natives 'live at peace' with their surroundings? No, by all accounts natives did just as much damage/conscious cultivation to their surroundings as any later white population<br/>* Do Americans owe their sense of liberty to the values of natives? By some accounts Yes. The culture shock of seeing libertarian values of equality was hard for Europeans<br/><br/>After reading this book I have a better understanding of 'the rest of the story'. I definitely would recommend to anyone who wonders about the past inhabitants. 