---
layout: post
author: James Rowe
title:  "<<title-similiar-to-filename>>"
date:   <<date-added>>
tags: <<tags-csv>
uid: <<uid>>
---

<!-- highly dependent on how you personally use jekyll templates, and how you want this to show up -->

## Title

Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience by Mihály Csíkszentmihályi
Empty 

https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2897682

Bookshelves

Exclusive: read

Bookshelves: psychology

Binding/Format: Audio CD

## My Review 5/5

This audiobook is formatted as an interview with the author which is an interesting take. Like having a conversation with him about "Flow".<br/>Most important, he states "This book is no good to merely listen, only good if you take action".<br/><br/>Life is roughly split into thirds. 1/3 "work", 1/3 "maintenance", 1/3 "leisure activities". Everyone agrees that doing whatever you want is good. But what about the other 2/3 of your life? Could there be a way to maximize the pleasure gained from these otherwise 'routine' activities. Much research has been written about how man is never satisfied with a set level of material wealth. That given a set point a person becomes accustomed to it and the desires more. This is most evident by the "if I only had X I would be happy". One car, turns into two, Fords turn into Mercedes.<br/><br/>As learned from [b:Man's Search for Meaning|4069|Man's Search for Meaning|Viktor E. Frankl|https://d.gr-assets.com/books/1467136625s/4069.jpg|3389674] material possessions do not even have to exist for one to find a calling. As author puts it, man-kind has an inner drive to achieve something beyond material wealth. Call it spiritual or moral matters not. Man will pursue a passion in which he can escape from the reality of life.<br/><br/>Important note. You can "escape backwards" with drugs, alcohol and other vices, or you can "escape forward" with art, passion, states of flow. People who report experiencing a state of flow come out of it with heightened sense of self worth and respect.<br/><br/>8 Important aspects of "Flow"<br/>1. Clarity of large goal, and every small goal in-between. Immediate feedback on each movement.<br/>2. High level of concentration on the task at hand. All other concerns fade away<br/>3. Balance between skills and challenge at hand. Too much challenge and experience anxiety/frustration, too little and boredom/loss of interest<br/>4. Feeling of control. Every movement/decision is within your control. No action escapes you.<br/>5. Effortlessness. Knowing what to do and implementing this action takes no action.<br/>6. altered perception of time. Time either stops or flies. Two seconds in a heightened state takes hours, hours in a height stated feels like seconds<br/>7. melting together of action and consciousness<br/>8. auto-telic quality of experience. Reward from doing and accomplishing the goal<br/><br/>5 C's of flow<br/>1. Clarity - know thyself. know the goals<br/>2. Centering - be in balance. stress is a blocker to flow<br/>3. Choice - if you could do anything, make sure you are doing the thing you want to be doing<br/>4. Commitment - See through your goals<br/>5. Challenge - the path should not be so easy nor so hard. See above.

---

##### Author's Note

Generated using https://github.com/jsr6720/goodreads-csv-to-md script

##### Significant revisions

tags: { page.tags | join: ", " } <!-- todo move this somewhere -->

- { page.date | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" } Originally published on [{ site.url }]({ site.url }) with uid { page.uid }

##### EOF/Footnotes
