---
layout: post
author: James Rowe
title:  "<<title-similiar-to-filename>>"
date:   <<date-added>>
tags: <<tags-csv>
uid: <<uid>>
---

<!-- highly dependent on how you personally use jekyll templates, and how you want this to show up -->

## Title

Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind by Yuval Noah Harari
Derek Perkins 

https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25004163

Bookshelves

Exclusive: read

Bookshelves: history, psychology, read-again

Binding/Format: Audiobook

## My Review 4/5

Great book. I cannot do it justice with the below takeaways.<br/><br/>Honestly it sneaked up on me that it was also a commentary book about how little our biology relates to our current social order. The first 1/3 of the book is very good, but once you get to the post-modern historical era brace yourself for lots of skimming and/or sweeping judgments on humanity.<br/><br/>Humans have relatives: Neanderthals and Erect-us that died out/purged?<br/>Humans have destroyed every ecology it's touched<br/><br/>Traversing through the three revolutions: Cognitive, Agriculture, Scientific/Technology, Sapiens have shaped the world with the one true revolution. Being able to lie/tell about a fantasy that isn't there.<br/><br/>These religions permeate all aspects of our culture. The shared myths allow us to extend our network beyond the 'tribe' onto the whole world.<br/><br/>The book ends depressingly enough with one of three outcomes<br/>1. ecological/nuclear disaster<br/>2. transform into cyber beings<br/>3. AI takes over the world<br/>4. Genetic engineering takes over the world

---

##### Author's Note

Generated using https://github.com/jsr6720/goodreads-csv-to-md script

##### Significant revisions

tags: { page.tags | join: ", " } <!-- todo move this somewhere -->

- { page.date | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" } Originally published on [{ site.url }]({ site.url }) with uid { page.uid }

##### EOF/Footnotes
