---
layout: post
author: James Rowe
title:  "Detect Thoughts on '1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus'"
date:   2019-05-09 00:00:00 -0400
tags: book review Mann history
uid: 7c8d2546-842c-4b67-abc8-2aaffdfa362e
---

<!-- highly dependent on how you personally use jekyll templates, and how you want this to show up -->

## My Review 4/5

Detect Thoughts: First. The book can be halved and/or skipped around if you favor one continent or another. Mann does a phenomenal job traversing the histories of a peoples who were wiped off the earth by diseases.<br/><br/>This book covers everything you wanted to know:<br/>* Were all native populations nomads? Emphatically no, most city centers were ravaged by diseases<br/>* Did natives 'live at peace' with their surroundings? No, by all accounts natives did just as much damage/conscious cultivation to their surroundings as any later white population<br/>* Do Americans owe their sense of liberty to the values of natives? By some accounts Yes. The culture shock of seeing libertarian values of equality was hard for Europeans<br/><br/>After reading this book I have a better understanding of 'the rest of the story'. I definitely would recommend to anyone who wonders about the past inhabitants. 

### Date Read
2019/05/09

### Date Added
2019/04/29

## Goodreads book information

*1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus* by Charles C. Mann
Peter         Johnson

https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1538183

Bookshelves: history

---

##### Author's Note

Initial `md` Generated using https://github.com/jsr6720/goodreads-csv-to-md

Charles C. Mann, *1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus*, Peter         Johnson HighBridge Company 2005 (Audio CD)[^1]

##### Significant revisions

tags: { page.tags | join: ", " } <!-- todo move this somewhere -->

- { 2024-04-22 00:30:47 | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" } Convereted to jekyll markdown format 
- { page.date | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" } Originally published on [goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com)

##### EOF/Footnotes

[^1]: ISBN: ="1565119789"